---
date:   2025-03-06 19:00:00
layout: post
title: Chamango & Maximum Chunkiness
description: Modifying a beloved font
image: '/images/Chamango-before-after.png'
tags: [type, design]
---

Anyone who has seen my [t-shirt design](https://www.smallandsimplethings.org/shop/) knows that I love chunky fonts with chunky outlines. One of my favorite fonts is "[Chango](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Chango)", a free font that I've used for years. Here is how the creator Fontstage describes it:

> Chango is a display face based on letters drawn by Mexican illustrator Ernesto “Chango” García Cabral. It’s big and heavy, ideal for head-line body sizes with a humorous touch.

The only problem I have with Chango is that the counters of the characters do unpredictable things when the outline starts getting exceptionally large. Since I like chunky outlines, I see this a lot and it's annoying.

I thought it was a problem with the font. Since I recently started using Glyphs Mini, I spent some time cleaning up extra nodes in a copy of the Chango font thinking this would solve the problem. It didn't.

It turns out that the problem is simply this: I like huge outlines! But if using huge outlines is wrong, I don't want to be right. So, I set out in search of another solution. It was a lot easier than I thought.

This time, I made a copy of the Chango font and removed all the counters. Now, I use my new "solid" version in a layer below the "regular" version. I apply the chunky border to the solid layer and voila, no weird outlines with the counters because there are no counters!

I suspect that there are others out there like me that like chunky fonts and chunky outlines. Since this font is licensed under the OFL, I will make my modified version available to you, my friends. Download and enjoy! 

Note: the OFL prevents me from releasing it under the same name. So, I have named it Chamango Solid. I’m including Chamango Regular. This is the version where I cleaned up the extra nodes. It is basically the same as Chango, but this way you can easily switch your layers between solid and regular. 

If you get a chance, [let me know](mailto:hi@smallandsimplthings.org) how it works for you. 

If you need custom lettering, a logo, or a logo with custom lettering, [email me](mailto:hi@smallandsimplthings.org)!

Cheers!